So this modal is what we
designed it to be, right?
So we're able to say kind of
we define start a food fight.
We've got a little
description of what it is and
then what we need people to do,
including a hint here.
Because once I start typing here,
this goes away.
So you can add some details there and
then it gives you more info
about like what is required.
You can mark fields as
optional if you want, but
in our case none of these are optional.
So at the moment, if I try to submit this,
I am gonna say something like peanut
butter is a controversial thing.
So we'll say peanut butter and jalapenos
Got to make sure you get
the diacritics right, are delicious.
And it's a jalapeno, so it's spicy.
So I submit this, and it's going to fail,
because we don't have any way of
handling this modal yet, right?
So it says, hey,
there was some trouble connecting.
That's because it tried to send something
and there was nothing to handle it.
There's nothing registered for
it to send this to.
So it just times out.
It kind of flies into the void and
nothing comes back.
So it's like, I don't know,
maybe you didn't build this yet.
So, the next thing we need to
do is to actually build this.
We're gonna add interactivity here.
That means we're headed
back to the browser and
we're gonna full screen this, and
let's head into interactivity and
shortcuts here on the left-hand side,
And we wanna turn this on.
So, the way that interactivity works is
there are a lot of things that slack can
do that it counts as interactivity.
If you click a button, if you respond to
a modal, if you run a contact shortcut or
a bunch of other things,
it is going to call that interactivity and
it sends it to one URL, which is actually
kinda nice in comparison to the commands.
Because the commands you have
to add a URL for each one, and
that's useful for
separation of complex stuff.
But in our case, it's kinda nice that it
all just goes to one place because we've
got the switch commands to handle it.
So we're just gonna use the exact
same URL here, actually.
So I can let's see.
I have this somewhere in here.
Grab this,
drop it in here with the /api/slack.
And we can save.
Okay, what we're doing now is we're
sending it we can see these requests
coming in as I submit.
Probably a little easier to
see if I make this bigger.
That we've got all these happening here.
So submit, there's another one,
there's another one.
And so we're sending these responses,
but because we're not actually handling
the interactivity,
nothing is actually happening.
So to do that, we are going to head
back into the function here and
we're gonna create a new function
underneath our handleSlashCommand.
And this one's gonna be
called handleInteractivity.
And this one also takes a payload and
that's gonna be the slack modal payload.
And this one, we're gonna grab out
the callback id because we need that.
And that's gonna be the payload,
callback id or
the payload.view, callback id.
And the reason that we're checking
both is that depending on whether or
not we're sending a shortcut or
a modal, it changes a little bit.
So this is just a quick fallback.
That means we're not gonna have to
remember to change this later when we add
additional pieces.
So let's set up a switch here.
We're gonna do this just like we
did in the handle slash command,
where we're switching on the callback id.
And in the case of
the one we just created,
our food fight modal,
we need to do some stuff.
So the stuff we wanna do
is let's get our data and
that's gonna be the payload
view state values.
These objects are large.
Then to get our actual fields,
we wanna define the data that we need.
So it's gonna be our opinion, and
we'll come back and
actually set these our spice level.
And the submitter.
So I wanna know who
sent this opinion in so
that if we have questions we
wanna follow up we can do that.
So to get these we
are gonna use this data.
So data.opinion_ block.
Remember I said that we
were using the id _ block?
Then we get to .opinion and
then the value.
So, this pattern just makes
things a little bit easier.
There's no way to get
around the block really.
And I don't know if
they need to be unique.
So I just, or they do need to be
unique because otherwise they would,
you'd end up with kind of a mess.
So this is the simplest
way I found to do it.
You can come up with whatever naming
convention you like, if you would like.
So, then we've got the spice level block,
the spice level itself,
what the selected option is,
and then the value of that.
And finally, for the submitter,
that's not part of the form,
that's part of the original payload.
So, we can get the user and their name.
And what you could do if you were if
your team is all under like a single
domain name, and you all sign into
Slack with your work email, and
you all sign into Notion or GitHub or
whatever it is with your work emails,
you can map these where
you can do a lookup for
the user in the service
that you're searching for.
We're not gonna do that today because
it's this is not like a work instance.
And so, if somebody else joined and
they're using a Gmail account, we're not
going to find their their email, because
there's no guarantee that they signed up
for Slack with the same email that
they signed up for Notion with, right?
But it is an option.
It's what I did on a previous team because
everybody needed their at companyname.com.
And that allowed me to even have
people get updates in Notion for
something they'd created in Slack.
It was a really nice workflow.
But now that we've got this,
we will eventually save these,
but for now we are going to just
send the details back to Slack.
So we're going to use chat postMessage.
We're gonna use a channel.
And the channel that we are going
to use is our general channel.
So in this case I don't want to use
the channel where it was submitted.
I wanna use this channel's
detail directly.
So I'm gonna copy this channel id, and
then I'm gonna go back into here and
post, oops, in quotes, paste that here.
So that gives us our channel id.
So anytime somebody starts a food fight,
it will post to the general channel.
The way that I did this in previous
teams is if somebody made a request for
help with my team, it would post
in my team's public channel and
tag the person who wrote it so that
they would know where we triaged issues.
Next, we're gonna set up some text and
we'll say, dang y'all,
And then we can put some emojis
in there because why not?
And then we'll say we're gonna
use a specialty thing that
that Slack does where
you can send like a tag.
They do it like this.
You put it in curly boy or
angle brackets like this.
And then you can add somebody
by either their username or
id and that'll turn into an actual
mention in the message and
then we can say just started a food
fight with a will do fields spice level.
Take and
then I want this to have some new lines.
So we'll just do some new
line fields there, and
then I'm going to say fields.opinion,
and why don't we make that bold?
And then we can add
a couple more new lines and
just encourage everybody to discuss.
We're gonna break under that.
So, that is our basic setup here.
And then if we want to
have a default case,
we can just console log.
We'll say no handler defined for payload.
We'll actually,
we'll just send in the callback id.
And then we can return a status
of status code 400 and
it'll be a body of this as well.
So that it shows up oops, so that this
shows up on the screen for the person who
posted it because again if something's
wrong like that you do want it to show up.
And then finally, down below our
switch case, we're gonna return
a status code of 200, just like we did
in the other one with an empty body so
that Slack knows that we did,
in fact, respond to this request.
Then to use it,
we are going to come down in here.
And we're gonna check to see
if there's a body payload.
And if there is, we're gonna parse that.
And this is sent as JSON, so
we'll do a JSON.parse and
get a body.payload.
And then return handleInteractivity and
pass in that payload.
So let's give this a try.
Let's see how it's doing.
So I'm gonna run my foodfight command.
And then I wanna also show,
because we're checking for text,
we can add the take right in here.
So let's just say,
Raisins are a garbage snack.
So that'll get picked up and
automatically filled into that input,
which is a nice way to do it.
It lets people kind of move at the same
speed that they would normally type.
They just have to prefix
with that command.
And I don't know that this is
a particularly controversial thing to say.
I think this is probably
50-50 in the population.
So we'll submit it.
And there we go.
It's now responding to the whole channel.
It tags my user and
says that I just started a food fight.
It includes the take that I put in, and
it includes the spice level that I set for
it.
So, now we've got kind of a discussion
happening inside of slack.
And this could be good enough for some
cases where if you just need a way you to,
if somebody takes a particular action,
have kind of an audit log of what
actions were taken and when.